# AEP-9: End Token Burning and Begin Returning Income to Sky Holders via Staking

## Preamble

```
AEP#: 9
Author(s): misher
Contributors:
Status: Formal Submission
Date Proposed: 2025-03-24
Date Ratified:
Forum URL: https://forum.sky.money/t/aep-05-end-token-burning-and-begin-returning-income-to-sky-holders-via-staking/26177
```

## Motivation

Sky initiated token burning aka repurchases spending around $500,000 daily (more or less) to buyback Sky tokens to put pressure on Sky's market price. While Sky holders benefit from this, it is my belief that the benefit is much less than if that $500,000 daily was given back to Sky holders. After all, much of the supply of Sky is lost, held on exchanges, or otherwise not held by active Sky participants. In addition, the market price of Sky is not solely determined by the defi market. ERC-20 tokens in general follow ETH prices and the market with purchases/sales often having little effect on price especially as there are other markets such as exchanges as well as MEV bots that capture the spending.

It is my belief that by narrowing the benefit to active Sky holders who stake their tokens with Sky (likely around 20% of supply amounting to $250 million), we can greatly increase the benefit to us holders and generate hype/demand that will lead to a larger surge in price than if we bought tokens via burning. I think a great example is ETH post EIP-1559, the core developers believed that burning would lead to ETH price going 2x or more, but decreased supply had little effect on the market and instead the price crashed. 

While $500,000 a day (182.5 million a year) is not sustainable, I believe Sky price will surge up depending on what we pay until APR is around 5-10%. Likely closer to 5%. At 5%, this is $12.5 million a year or $34,246 a day. I am thus proposing that we end token burning and instead direct 0.5% of the Sky surplus towards Sky stakers each week to be paid out of the course of the following week. This ensures that bills will continue to be paid as the lower the treasury the less that stakers are paid. Based on current numbers this will mean $520,000 is paid to stakers in the first week and likely this amount will remain steady. I realize there are future proposals/plans coming from Rune as to how staking will work, but I believe this is a good system in the interim that will maintain Sky price (and realistically pump it) and reward loyal Sky holders.

By my very general/guesstimate math,  $27,114,285 will be paid out over the year if that amount holds steady, at 5% that leads to nearly a 2.2x increase in token price. I'd also propose that no more than 10% of Sky staked this way be allowed to be borrowed against due to the risk of liquidation, but I'll leave it to others to figure that out as I know it's a contentious issue. As burning was done without an AEP (I believe) I haven't included an Atlas edit to stop it. Let me know if that's needed as part of this or if I can just include it here.

I've changed it from Sealing to Staking due to the KISS rule. By using terms people recognize we can increase adoption and reduce confusion. My goal here as a SKY token holder is to make my SKY more desired by others so that the price goes up and to make holding SKY more beneficial to me by receiving a share of the income generated by SKY. Let me know if over the week hourly is the best method of distribution or if there is a better way to break it down?

I also want to add, I know the delegates are basically the people who decide if AEP's pass or not. But so far I haven't seen them commenting on the AEP's submitted. If you are a delegate and reading this, I'd appreciate if you commented why you believe this AEP is not beneficial to SKY holders if you plan to vote against it.

## Edited Atlas Documents

Sections shall be amended as below (changes in **bold** or ~~strikethrough~~):

A.0.1.1.32 - [s]Sealing[/s] **Staking** CORE

[View Provenance](https://www.notion.so/atlas-axis/UPDATED-Atlas-Immutable-Alignment-Artifact-adc736735294455da38435c7a1cbfb3f?pvs=4#c06fdc73a93c4ef58b5837c9c14f4c68)

[s]Sealing[/s] **Staking** is a form of governance participation unlocked by SKY and MKR. When a user [s]Seals[/s] **Stakes** their SKY or MKR tokens, they immediately begin to earn significant rewards. [s]They must pay an Exit Fee to access their governance tokens again[/s]. **There will be a one week delay to withdraw any staked Sky.** This mechanism makes it more beneficial to [s]Seal[/s] **Stake** if the user anticipates remaining in the system long-term. Because there’s a [s]penalty[/s] **delay** for exiting, [s]Sealing[/s] **Staking** helps generate additional skin in the game and increases long-term alignment among ecosystem participants.

**0.5% of Sky surplus funds will be distributed to Stakers over the week hourly as USDS, with the amount to be recalculated at the end of the week. During the one week exit period USDS will not be issued.**

## Pull Request of Edits

https://github.com/makerdao/next-gen-atlas/pull/82
